.TH TOGGLE-KITTY 1 "February 2025" "toggle-kitty" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
.B toggle-kitty
\- toggle the visibility of the Kitty terminal emulator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B toggle-kitty

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B toggle-kitty
is a lightweight script that allows users to quickly show or hide the Kitty terminal emulator, mimicking the behavior of a dropdown terminal.

The script checks if Kitty is running and either minimizes or activates its window accordingly. It requires X11 and does not function properly in a Wayland session due to `xdotool` limitations.

.SH USAGE
Run the command:
.PP
.EX
toggle-kitty
.EE

.SH BEHAVIOR
- If Kitty is running and active: The script minimizes the Kitty window.
- If Kitty is running but inactive: The script brings the Kitty window to the foreground.

.SH KEYBINDING CUSTOMIZATION
To bind `toggle-kitty` to a keyboard shortcut in Debian/Ubuntu:
.PP
1. Open **Settings** → **Keyboard Shortcuts**.
2. Add a new shortcut:
   - Name: `Toggle Kitty`
   - Command: `toggle-kitty`
   - Shortcut: `Ctrl + F8` (or any preferred combination)
3. Save and apply the shortcut.

For other desktop environments, use the appropriate keyboard settings.

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
- **Kitty Not Found**: Ensure Kitty is installed and running.
- **xdotool Command Not Found**: Install `xdotool` using:
  .EX
  sudo apt install -y xdotool
  .EE
- **Not Working in Wayland**: 
  .PP
  toggle-kitty relies on `xdotool`, which is not compatible with Wayland. If you are using a Wayland session, the script will not function properly.
  .PP
  To use `toggle-kitty`, log in using an X11 session instead.

.SH FILES
.B ~/.bin/toggle-kitty
- If installed manually, ensure this path is in your `PATH` variable.

.SH AUTHOR
Developed by caesar003 - https://github.com/caesar003

.SH LICENSE
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B kitty(1),
.B xdotool(1)
